#summary description of changes from one release to the next.
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured
What changes are made from release to release. Check SVN history for more details.

= 3.1.0 =

Issue 28: Fix issues with protobuf extension registry to decode extensions.

Upgrade to Netty.4.0.14.Final

= 3.0.9 =

Issue 23: Depend on specific netty modules instead of netty-all to get better OSGI bundling.

Upgrade to Netty.4.0.13.Final

= 3.0.8 =

Issue 22: Allow use of JdkZLib compression as an alternative to JZLib. The JZLib dependency is optional now.

Upgrade to Netty.4.0.10.Final

= 3.0.7 =

Issue 25: Fix part3 - integer overflow in timeout calculation ( don't use 3.0.6 ).

= 3.0.6 =

Issue 25: Fix part2 - timeout after microseconds instead of nanoseconds.

= 3.0.5 =
Upgrade to Java1.7 compile and bytecode

Issue 23: Upgrade to Netty 4.0.6.Final

Issue 25: Fix infinite loop after timeout on RpcClient.callBlockingMethod.

= 3.0.4 =
Issue 11: Provided OSGI bundle.
Upgraded to Netty 4.0.0.CR1.

= 3.0.3 =
Issue 16: Upgrade to Netty 4.0.0.Beta2. There is a difference in the Bootstrap code which clients and servers use to construct their components. Checkout the changed examples.

Issue 19: Upgrade dependency to Protobuf 2.5. New protoc idl compiler required for clients.

Out-of-Band messaging now allows client code do success evaluation and/or blocking until completion. See RpcClientChannel#sendOobMessage and ServerRpcController#sendOobResponse methods returning ChannelFuture .

= 3.0.2 =

Issue 17: stackoverflow - infinite loop calling RpcClient.getPipeline().

= 3.0.1 =

Issue 10: replace commons logging with slf4j-api. Demo classes use logback-classic dependency configured by VM arguments adding system property -Dlogback.configurationFile="./lib/logback.xml".

Dependency Update: upgraded to Netty version 3.6.0 Final.

= 3.0.0 =

Feature: RPC timeout. See wiki page "RpcTimeout" for more info.

Fix: refactor Bootstrap client and server classes to be more symetric.

Feature: new utility AvailablePortFinder utility to allow selection of availible server TCP ports for PeerInfo.

Fix 14: replacement of PeerInfo's PID with UUID.

Dependency Update: upgraded to Netty version 3.5.10 Final.

= 2.0.1 =

Dependency Update: upgraded to Netty version 3.5.3 Final.

Fix: don't allow further sending over closed RpcClient, so closure is not starved.

= 2.0.0 =

Feature: Out-of-Band Protobuf Messaging between peers.

Feature: Out-of-Band RPC server replies

Feature: provide "transparent" messages through Netty pipeline

Feature: allow registration of BlockingServices in servers.

Feature: provide easy access to the Netty pipeline.

Feature: Provide WirePayload ( wire protocol ) extension possibility.

Fix#9: reversed logging roles

Discontinued: protobuf-streamer-pro is discontinued since the Out-of-Band messaging features can be used to allow pull of large files from Server to Client, making the separate library obsolete.

Dependency Update: Netty 3.5.2.Final

= 1.2.2 =

Fix#8: fix for hanging due to close race condition.

= 1.2.1 =

Fix: improve asynchronicity of reply calls.

= 1.2.0 =

Feature: Introduced compression

Made availible on maven central repository.

= 1.0.0 =

Initial version.